Electrical test equipment application solutions from Megger
Log in
Registration
Where to buy
Contact us
International English
Africa
Asia
Australia
Bulgaria
Canada
China
Latin America
Czech Republic
Europe
France
Germany
Hungary
India
Middle East
Poland
Romania
Russia / CIS
Serbia
Slovakia
Spain
Sweden
Turkey
UK
USA
Menu
Search for:
Search
Products
Previous
Cable fault, test and diagnostics
Previous
Cable fault and test system vans
Cable fault locating equipment
Cable testing and diagnostics
Telecom testing
Diagnostic laboratory equipment
Circuit breaker testing
Previous
Circuit breaker analysis systems
Contact resistance test sets
Insulating oil testing
Primary injection test systems
PD testing on bushings, spacer and insulators
PD testing on switchgear (AIS/GIS/GIL)
Electricians' testers
Previous
Battery testing equipment
Earth testing
Electricians' accessories
Insulation resistance testing < 1 kV
Loop and RCD testing
Low resistance ohmmeters
Motor and generator testing
Multifunction installation testers
Multimeters and clampmeters
Portable appliance testing (PATs)
Electrical certification software
Thermal cameras
Time domain reflectometers
Utility service detection
Voltage detectors
Instrument transformer testing
Previous
Current and voltage transformer testing
Insulation testing
Previous
AC insulation testing
DC diagnostic insulation testing
DC Hipot testing
DC overvoltage or withstand testing
Insulation resistance testing < 1 kV
VLF insulation testing
PD test of insulating materials and electronic components
Monitoring
Previous
Motor monitoring
PD in insulation
Powerline monitoring
Motor and generator testing
Previous
Static electric motor analysers
Dynamic electric motor analysers
Electric motor QC systems
PD testing on motors and generators
Relay and protection testing
Previous
IEC 61850 solutions
Multi-phase relay testing
Primary injection test systems
Protection system tools
Relay software
Single phase relay testing
Resistance, battery and power quality
Previous
Battery testing equipment
Earth testing
Leak and corona detectors
Low resistance ohmmeters
Power quality
Software
Utility service and leak detection
Watthour meter testing
Power transformer testing
Previous
Complete transformer test systems
Insulating oil testing
Transformer insulation testing
Transformer resistance testing
Turns ratio testing
PD testing on transformers
PD testing on bushings, spacer and insulators
Partial discharge testing
Previous
PD testing on bushings, spacer and insulators
PD test of insulating materials and electronic components
PD testing on transformers
PD testing on motors and generators
PD testing on switchgear (AIS/GIS/GIL)
Water leak detection and monitoring
close
Applications
Previous
Low Voltage and PAT testing
Battery
Cable test
Previous
Cable diagnostics
Cable fault location
High voltage cable testing
Communications systems
Circuit breakers
Previous
Air/gas circuit breakers
Interrupter
Oil circuit breakers
Operating mechanism
Recommended circuit breaker tests
Vacuum circuit breakers
Instrument transformer
Previous
Bushing CT’s
Current transformer
Voltage transformer
Relay protection
Previous
Smart grid and digital substation
Smart grid and distributed energy resources (DER)
Specific and advanced applications
Power Transformer
Previous
Transformer Life Management Bulletin series
Commissioning / routine / diagnostic
Surge arresters
Tap changers
Transformer bushing CTs
Transformer bushings
Transformer core
Transformer insulation
Transformer windings and leads
Partial discharge
Renewable products
Water leak detection
close
Grid solutions
close
Company
Previous
About Us
Previous
Who we are
What we do
Legal
Blog
Podcast
Careers
Contact us
News
Previous
Videos
Previous
Webinars
close
Support
Previous
Customer support
Previous
Product registration
Returns authorisations
Frequently asked questions
Previous
Battery and product disposal
Battery testing
Current transformer (CT) testing
HV circuit breaker testing
Installation testing
Insulation resistance testing
Loop testing
PAT testing
PowerSuite software
Sweep frequency response analysis
Time Domain Reflectometry
Product notices
Safety notices
Technical library
Previous
Academic papers
Application notes
Brochures and catalogues
Case studies
Electrical Tester online
Electrical Tester magazine
Software and firmware
Technical guides
ET Magazine - November 2022
ET Magazine - March 2020
ET Magazine - July 2021
Where to buy
Previous
Megger contacts
Megger approved distributors
Megger sales territories
Where to Rent
close
Events
Previous
Conferences
Previous
Exhibitions
Previous
Webinars
close
Webinars
close
Applications
Circuit breakers
Recommended circuit breaker tests
Recommended circuit breaker tests
The following is a list of comprehensive circuit breaker tests recommended for use on all circuit breaker types except as indicated.
Timing and Travel
; testing used to determine and validate the performance characteristics of circuit breakers. For example, the changing state of main and resistor contacts (open- close, close-open, etc.) and auxiliary contacts (e.g., 52a and 52b) versus time, varying defined distances traveled by the main contacts (e.g., total travel, over travel, rebound, stroke, and contact wipe), velocity (average and instantaneous), dwell-time and dead-time, are primary circuit breaker characteristics measured.
Motion;
see timing and travel above. The contact travel motion is captured by connecting a travel transducer on the moving part of the circuit breaker’s operating mechanism or interrupter and is used to assess the condition of the interrupter, damping units and identify mechanical issues with the operating mechanism. The motion is presented as a curve displaying distance vs. time. Several parameters are measured. For example, over travel is the distance traveled by the contacts that exceeds their final resting position and is measured to verify the proper operation of the damping assemblies within the breaker.  Measured values from the motion curves are compared to reference data provided by the circuit breaker manufacturer.
Coil current
; this measurement can be performed online or offline and is used to detect potential mechanical and/or electrical problems in actuating coils well in advance of their emergence as actual faults, and extract information about lubrication and latch operation. The quality of the control voltage supply is also detectable from these tests. This diagnostic is perhaps most effective when it is performed as a "First Trip" activity. First Trip is performed when the circuit breaker is in-service, and has not been operated for a long time. Lubrication problems are easiest to identify in this scenario. Comparison to previous results is the best method of analysis.
Static (contact) resistance measurements (SRM)
; micro-Ohm measurement of the main contacts. This test is conducted by injecting DC current through the breaker main contact system when the circuit breaker is closed, and measuring the voltage drop so that the resistance can be calculated. The resistance reflects the condition of the conducting parts.
Dynamic (contact) resistance measurements (DRM)
; this test is used to determine the length and condition of the current carrying part of the arcing contacts in SF6 puffer type circuit breakers.  DRM tests are conducted by injecting DC current through the breaker main contacts while the breaker is operated. The breaker analyser then calculates and plots resistance as a function of time. If contact movement is recorded simultaneously, the resistance can be determined at each contact position. With DRM measurement, the arcing contact length can be reliably estimated. The only other means to do this is by dismantling the circuit breaker. In SF6 breakers, the arcing contact is commonly made of a tungsten/copper alloy and is burned off and becomes shorter for each interruption of current.
Vibration
; non-invasive testing that is based on the premise that all mechanical movements produce sounds and/or vibrations, and that by measuring them and comparing the results with previous test results, the condition of the equipment in question can be evaluated. The breaker can stay in service during the test. Using an accelerometer, an Open-Close operation is analysed. The first operation can be different than the second and third because of corrosion and other metal to metal contact issues. The vibration method detects faults that may barely be indicated with conventional methods and is published in CIGRE and IEEE papers.
Motor current
; applicability of this test is dependent on the circuit breaker’s operating mechanism.  A measure of motor current is only applicable on spring drives.
Minimum pick-up measurement (minimum voltage to operate circuit breaker)
; this test is intended to determine the minimum voltage at which the breaker is able to operate – the contact timing parameters are not of interest, only whether the breaker operates or not. It is a measure of how much force is needed to move the coil armature. Testing begins at a low voltage, sending a control pulse to the breaker. The voltage is increased by small increments (5 V) until the breaker operates; this voltage is recorded and is expected to remain unchanged through future dates.
Minimum voltage; this test is specified and recommended in international standards. The objective of this test is to make sure that the breaker can operate at the lowest voltage level provided by the station battery when the breaker has to operate during a power outage.  The test is performed by applying the lowest specified operating voltage and verifying that the breaker operates within specified operation parameters. Standard test voltage is 85% (and 70%) of nominal voltage for close (and open).
Station voltage
; it is recommended to measure the voltage level of the battery or power supply while operating the circuit breaker in order to verify that the CB is performing to desired specifications.  If the voltage level is low or not correct, one might accidentally adjust parameters on the breaker when the cause of malfunction is the power supply.
Power factor/dissipation factor/ tan delta and capacitance
; provides means for verifying the integrity of the insulation for circuit breaker components.
Vacuum bottle test
; applicable for vacuum circuit breakers. The vacuum bottle is tested with high voltage AC or DC to check that the integrity of the vacuum is intact.
SF6 leakage; applicable for SF6 circuit breakers.
Using gas leak detectors (sniffers) or thermal imaging, SF6 leaks are sought. These may occur in any part of the breaker but are more commonly found where two parts are joined together such as valve fittings, bushings and flanges. There may be porosity leaks as well, whereby the actual tank is leaking, but this does not happen often.
Moisture/Purity
; a small amount of SF6 gas is vented from the breaker through a moisture/purity analyser to determine the moisture and concentration of the gas. It is important that the moisture content inside an SF6 breaker is kept to a minimum as it can cause corrosion and flashovers inside the breaker.  When there is arcing (i.e., faults or normal interruptions) inside of the circuit breaker, the SF6 combines with water to produce corrosive by-products.
Air pressure test;
applicable for air-blast breakers. Air pressure level, pressure drop rate and air flow are measured during various operations.
Megger offers a selection of circuit breaker testers to monitor these properties,
click here
Popular Links
New in the technical library
Upcoming Megger events
Featured product videos
Find a distributor
Discover our product range
Account Links
Login
My account
Service request
Software downloads
Product registration
Site Links
Contact us
Cookie policy
Legal
Modern Slavery Act
Privacy policy
Sitemap
Brand Links
AVO Training Institute
States Terminal Blocks and Test Switches
Social Links
Facebook
Twitter
Youtube
LinkedIn
Instagram
Glassdoor
Copyright © 2023 Megger, all rights reserved.
We use cookies to provide you with a better experience. Read more on our
cookie policy.