Electrical test equipment | power station to plug | Megger
Log in
Registration
Where to buy
Contact us
International English
Africa
Asia
Australia
Bulgaria
Canada
China
Latin America
Czech Republic
Europe
France
Germany
Hungary
India
Middle East
Poland
Romania
Russia / CIS
Serbia
Slovakia
Spain
Sweden
Turkey
UK
USA
Menu
Search for:
Search
Products
Previous
Cable fault, test and diagnostics
Previous
Cable fault and test system vans
Cable fault locating equipment
Cable testing and diagnostics
Telecom testing
Diagnostic laboratory equipment
Circuit breaker testing
Previous
Circuit breaker analysis systems
Contact resistance test sets
Insulating oil testing
Primary injection test systems
PD testing on bushings, spacer and insulators
PD testing on switchgear (AIS/GIS/GIL)
Electricians' testers
Previous
Battery testing equipment
Earth testing
Electricians' accessories
Insulation resistance testing < 1 kV
Loop and RCD testing
Low resistance ohmmeters
Motor and generator testing
Multifunction installation testers
Multimeters and clampmeters
Portable appliance testing (PATs)
Electrical certification software
Thermal cameras
Time domain reflectometers
Utility service detection
Voltage detectors
Instrument transformer testing
Previous
Current and voltage transformer testing
Insulation testing
Previous
AC insulation testing
DC diagnostic insulation testing
DC Hipot testing
DC overvoltage or withstand testing
Insulation resistance testing < 1 kV
VLF insulation testing
PD test of insulating materials and electronic components
Monitoring
Previous
Motor monitoring
PD in insulation
Powerline monitoring
Motor and generator testing
Previous
Static electric motor analysers
Dynamic electric motor analysers
Electric motor QC systems
PD testing on motors and generators
Relay and protection testing
Previous
IEC 61850 solutions
Multi-phase relay testing
Primary injection test systems
Protection system tools
Relay software
Single phase relay testing
Resistance, battery and power quality
Previous
Battery testing equipment
Earth testing
Leak and corona detectors
Low resistance ohmmeters
Power quality
Software
Utility service and leak detection
Watthour meter testing
Power transformer testing
Previous
Complete transformer test systems
Insulating oil testing
Transformer insulation testing
Transformer resistance testing
Turns ratio testing
PD testing on transformers
PD testing on bushings, spacer and insulators
Partial discharge testing
Previous
PD testing on bushings, spacer and insulators
PD test of insulating materials and electronic components
PD testing on transformers
PD testing on motors and generators
PD testing on switchgear (AIS/GIS/GIL)
Water leak detection and monitoring
close
Applications
Previous
Low Voltage and PAT testing
Battery
Cable test
Previous
Cable diagnostics
Cable fault location
High voltage cable testing
Communications systems
Circuit breakers
Previous
Air/gas circuit breakers
Interrupter
Oil circuit breakers
Operating mechanism
Recommended circuit breaker tests
Vacuum circuit breakers
Instrument transformer
Previous
Bushing CT’s
Current transformer
Voltage transformer
Relay protection
Previous
Smart grid and digital substation
Smart grid and distributed energy resources (DER)
Specific and advanced applications
Power Transformer
Previous
Transformer Life Management Bulletin series
Commissioning / routine / diagnostic
Surge arresters
Tap changers
Transformer bushing CTs
Transformer bushings
Transformer core
Transformer insulation
Transformer windings and leads
Partial discharge
Renewable products
Water leak detection
close
Grid solutions
close
Company
Previous
About Us
Previous
Who we are
What we do
Legal
Blog
Podcast
Careers
Contact us
News
Previous
Videos
Previous
Webinars
close
Support
Previous
Customer support
Previous
Product registration
Returns authorisations
Frequently asked questions
Previous
Battery and product disposal
Battery testing
Current transformer (CT) testing
HV circuit breaker testing
Installation testing
Insulation resistance testing
Loop testing
PAT testing
PowerSuite software
Sweep frequency response analysis
Time Domain Reflectometry
Product notices
Safety notices
Technical library
Previous
Academic papers
Application notes
Brochures and catalogues
Case studies
Electrical Tester online
Electrical Tester magazine
Software and firmware
Technical guides
ET Magazine - November 2022
ET Magazine - March 2020
ET Magazine - July 2021
Where to buy
Previous
Megger contacts
Megger approved distributors
Megger sales territories
Where to Rent
close
Events
Previous
Conferences
Previous
Exhibitions
Previous
Webinars
close
Webinars
close
Company
About Us
Who we are
Our brands
Our brands
Megger attributes its substantial growth to the fantastic brands that have been incorporated into the Megger family, who have collectively contributed to Megger being the successful organisation that it is today.
Here is some insight into those brands, and which ones that you can still expect to see today in addition to our Megger brand.
Baker Instruments®
The Baker Instrument business, acquired by Megger in 2018, is one of the world’s leading rotating equipment test and measurement suppliers and is based in Fort Collins, Colorado. The product range includes both static and dynamic electric motor testing used for condition monitoring, predictive maintenance, manufacturing and repair - all of which are complementary to our existing range of electrical industrial test equipment.
AVO Training
For over 55 years, AVO Training Institute has helped thousands of people in over 100 different countries across the world, test and maintain safe and reliable electrical systems. AVO currently offers one of the largest selections of Electrical Training courses available with over 57 courses specializing in Electrical Safety & Electrical Maintenance.
AVO Training is is accredited by the International Association for Continuing Education and Training (IACET). AVO Training complies with the ANSI/IACET Standard, which is recognized internationally as a standard of excellence in instructional practices. As a result of this accreditation, AVO Training is accredited to issue the IACET CEU.
Visit the
AVO Training website
.
STATES®
Since 1911, test technicians and engineers have depended on States terminal blocks and test switches to provide easy access to wiring on panel boards and switchboards, eliminate wiring reconnection errors and saving operator time. The States business is co-located at our Dallas site. Visit the States website
www.statesproducts.com
PowerDB™
There was a demand for software to provide data management for acceptance and maintenance testing jobs, which was filled by PowerDB. Located at College Station, Texas – famous for its engineering school – software engineers created a database tool specifically for customers with asset management problems. Since its acquisition by Megger, it operates as a software division and continues to develop and support
PowerDB
.
SebaKMT®
SebaKMT is a leader for innovative water monitoring solutions and leak pin-pointing products. For over 60 years SebaKMT has been a reliable partner to many customers throughout the world.
Founded in 1951, SebaKMT produces and develops measurement equipment for locating leaks in drinking water distribution networks. In the 1970’s this was also extended to fault location for power cables, which now makes up part of Megger’s cable fault location and diagnostics product range.
Programma®
Proudly Swedish, Programma Electric AB was founded in 1976 and quickly became a world renowned supplier of test equipment and high voltage circuit breakers stationery batteries as well as portable high current applications.
Headquartered in Danderyd, Sweden, the company was acquired by Megger in 2005.
Biddle™
The James G. Biddle Company was Evershed & Vignoles’ master distributor in the USA from 1910 until WWII. The US Navy was the largest single customer for insulation testers important by the Biddle company. With the ongoing bombing of England and the difficulty/danger of sea transport, the Navy came to Mr. Biddle and advised him that they needed a secure source of testers. They said that, unless the Biddle company could start making the units in Philadelphia, they would have to find another source. Evershed & Vignoles then licensed Biddle to manufacture their insulation testers in the USA. Megger insulation testers remained an important part of the war effort at sea. Following WWII, the Biddle company continued as the master distributor for Evershed & Vignoles, but also as a manufacturing company.
Manufacturing insulation testers changed the nature of the James G. Biddle company’s business and led the company into developing and manufacturing order types of electrical test equipment following WWII and continuing today.
Multi-Amp™
Founded in 1951, Multi-Amp came to merge first with Biddle, and then later Megger. Based in Dallas, Texas, the former Multi-Amp facility concentrates on relay test and circuit breaker test equipment for the world’s power industries.
Pax™
PAX – acquired 2008; innovators of advanced transformer diagnostics
Seeing an opportunity to create a transformer test business based around sweep frequency response analysis, engineers at Programma left to create a new business called Pax Diagnostics. Megger saw an opportunity to share the Pax innovations with more customers through Megger’s distribution network,  and so acquired the company in 2008. The great work in terms of research and engineering for the transformer test industry continues at Megger’s Danderyd site in Sweden.
AVO®
AVO – acquires Evershed and Vignoles (Megger) 1968.
Named as an acronym for Amps, Volts and Ohms, AVO is best known for its iconic AVO meter multi-meter. AVO merged with Megger in the 1960s when both firms relocated from London to the Dover, UK manufacturing site. AVO lives on as our training business, operating from
Megger AVO
sites around the world.
Popular Links
New in the technical library
Upcoming Megger events
Featured product videos
Find a distributor
Discover our product range
Account Links
Login
My account
Service request
Software downloads
Product registration
Site Links
Contact us
Cookie policy
Legal
Modern Slavery Act
Privacy policy
Sitemap
Brand Links
AVO Training Institute
States Terminal Blocks and Test Switches
Social Links
Facebook
Twitter
Youtube
LinkedIn
Instagram
Glassdoor
Copyright © 2023 Megger, all rights reserved.
We use cookies to provide you with a better experience. Read more on our
cookie policy.