Cookie policy | Megger
Log in
Registration
Where to buy
Contact us
International English
Africa
Asia
Australia
Bulgaria
Canada
China
Latin America
Czech Republic
Europe
France
Germany
Hungary
India
Middle East
Poland
Romania
Russia / CIS
Serbia
Slovakia
Spain
Sweden
Turkey
UK
USA
Menu
Search for:
Search
Products
Previous
Cable fault, test and diagnostics
Previous
Cable fault and test system vans
Cable fault locating equipment
Cable testing and diagnostics
Telecom testing
Diagnostic laboratory equipment
Circuit breaker testing
Previous
Circuit breaker analysis systems
Contact resistance test sets
Insulating oil testing
Primary injection test systems
PD testing on bushings, spacer and insulators
PD testing on switchgear (AIS/GIS/GIL)
Electricians' testers
Previous
Battery testing equipment
Earth testing
Electricians' accessories
Insulation resistance testing < 1 kV
Loop and RCD testing
Low resistance ohmmeters
Motor and generator testing
Multifunction installation testers
Multimeters and clampmeters
Portable appliance testing (PATs)
Electrical certification software
Thermal cameras
Time domain reflectometers
Utility service detection
Voltage detectors
Instrument transformer testing
Previous
Current and voltage transformer testing
Insulation testing
Previous
AC insulation testing
DC diagnostic insulation testing
DC Hipot testing
DC overvoltage or withstand testing
Insulation resistance testing < 1 kV
VLF insulation testing
PD test of insulating materials and electronic components
Monitoring
Previous
Motor monitoring
PD in insulation
Powerline monitoring
Motor and generator testing
Previous
Static electric motor analysers
Dynamic electric motor analysers
Electric motor QC systems
PD testing on motors and generators
Relay and protection testing
Previous
IEC 61850 solutions
Multi-phase relay testing
Primary injection test systems
Protection system tools
Relay software
Single phase relay testing
Resistance, battery and power quality
Previous
Battery testing equipment
Earth testing
Leak and corona detectors
Low resistance ohmmeters
Power quality
Software
Utility service and leak detection
Watthour meter testing
Power transformer testing
Previous
Complete transformer test systems
Insulating oil testing
Transformer insulation testing
Transformer resistance testing
Turns ratio testing
PD testing on transformers
PD testing on bushings, spacer and insulators
Partial discharge testing
Previous
PD testing on bushings, spacer and insulators
PD test of insulating materials and electronic components
PD testing on transformers
PD testing on motors and generators
PD testing on switchgear (AIS/GIS/GIL)
Water leak detection and monitoring
close
Applications
Previous
Low Voltage and PAT testing
Battery
Cable test
Previous
Cable diagnostics
Cable fault location
High voltage cable testing
Communications systems
Circuit breakers
Previous
Air/gas circuit breakers
Interrupter
Oil circuit breakers
Operating mechanism
Recommended circuit breaker tests
Vacuum circuit breakers
Instrument transformer
Previous
Bushing CT’s
Current transformer
Voltage transformer
Relay protection
Previous
Smart grid and digital substation
Smart grid and distributed energy resources (DER)
Specific and advanced applications
Power Transformer
Previous
Transformer Life Management Bulletin series
Commissioning / routine / diagnostic
Surge arresters
Tap changers
Transformer bushing CTs
Transformer bushings
Transformer core
Transformer insulation
Transformer windings and leads
Partial discharge
Renewable products
Water leak detection
close
Grid solutions
close
Company
Previous
About Us
Previous
Who we are
What we do
Legal
Blog
Podcast
Careers
Contact us
News
Previous
Videos
Previous
Webinars
close
Support
Previous
Customer support
Previous
Product registration
Returns authorisations
Frequently asked questions
Previous
Battery and product disposal
Battery testing
Current transformer (CT) testing
HV circuit breaker testing
Installation testing
Insulation resistance testing
Loop testing
PAT testing
PowerSuite software
Sweep frequency response analysis
Time Domain Reflectometry
Product notices
Safety notices
Technical library
Previous
Academic papers
Application notes
Brochures and catalogues
Case studies
Electrical Tester online
Electrical Tester magazine
Software and firmware
Technical guides
ET Magazine - November 2022
ET Magazine - March 2020
ET Magazine - July 2021
Where to buy
Previous
Megger contacts
Megger approved distributors
Megger sales territories
Where to Rent
close
Events
Previous
Conferences
Previous
Exhibitions
Previous
Webinars
close
Webinars
close
Cookie policy
Megger Limited  ("We") is committed to protecting and respecting your privacy.
This policy sets out the basis on which any personal data we collect from you, or that you provide to us, will be processed by us.  Please read the following carefully to understand our views and practices regarding your personal data and how we will treat it.
Megger Limited is committed to safeguarding you personal information. Whenever you provide such information, We are legally obliged to use your information in line with all laws concerning the protection of personal information, including the Data Protection Act 1998.
Information we may collect from you
We may collect and process the following data about you:
Information that you provide by filling in forms on our site (our site). This includes information provided at the time of registering to use our site where registration is required, subscribing to our service or requesting further services. We may also ask you for information if you report a problem with our site.
If you contact us, we may keep a record of that correspondence.
We may also ask you to complete surveys that we use for research purposes, although you do not have to respond to them.
Details of transactions you carry out through our site and of the fulfilment of your orders.
Details of your visits to our site including, but not limited to, traffic data, location data, weblogs and other communication data, whether this is required for our own billing purposes or otherwise and the resources that you access.
IP addresses
We may collect information about your computer, including where available your IP address, operating system and browser type, for system administration and to report aggregate information. This is statistical data about our users' browsing actions and patterns, and does not identify any individual.
Information about our use of cookies
Our website uses cookies to distinguish you from other users of our website. This helps us to provide you with a good experience when you browse our website and also allows us to improve our site.
What is a cookie?
Cookies are text files containing small amounts of information which are downloaded to your device when you visit a website. Cookies are then sent back to the originating website on each subsequent visit, or to another website that recognises that cookie.
Cookies are useful because they allow a website to recognise a user’s device.
Cookies do lots of different jobs, like letting you navigate between pages efficiently, remembering your preferences, and generally improve the user experience. They can also help to ensure that adverts you see online are more relevant to you and your interests. The cookies used on this website have been categorised based on the categories found in the ICC UK Cookie guide. A list of all the cookies used on this website by category is set out below, with a note as to whether we use them; and then some details of the actual cookies on the site, their purpose, and what to do if you do not consent to any specific cookies being used.
Please note however that since we only use cookies where they will be of benefit, any failure to consent may limit your use of this site.
Category 1: Strictly necessary cookies:
These cookies enable services you have specifically asked for.
These cookies are essential in order to enable you to move around the website and use its features, such as accessing secure areas of the website. Without these cookies services you have asked for, like shopping baskets or e-billing, cannot be provided.
WE DO USE THIS CATEGORY OF COOKIE ON OUR SITE
Category 2: Performance Cookies:
These cookies collect anonymous information on the pages visited.
These cookies collect information about how visitors use a website, for instance which pages visitors go to most often, and if they get error messages from web pages. These cookies don’t collect information that identifies a visitor. All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. It is only used to improve how a website works.
By using our website, you agree that we can place these types of cookies on your device.
WE DO USE THIS CATEGORY OF COOKIE ON OUR SITE
Category 3: Functionality Cookies:
These cookies remember choices you make to improve your experience.
These cookies allow the website to remember choices you make (such as your user name, language or the region you are in) and provide enhanced, more personal features. For instance, a website may be able to provide you with local weather reports or traffic news by storing in a cookie the region in which you are currently located. These cookies can also be used to remember changes you have made to text size, fonts and other parts of web pages that you can customise. They may also be used to provide services you have asked for such as watching a video or commenting on a blog. The information these cookies collect may be anonymised and they cannot track your browsing activity on other websites.
By using our website, you agree that we can place these types of cookies on your device.
WE DO USE THIS CATEGORY OF COOKIE ON OUR SITE
These are the cookies used on our site
Cookie name
Category
Purpose
More information
Session ID cookie
1
Standard ASP.NET cookie containing the user’s session ID.
Expires at the end of the current browsing session
Show Geo Site Selector
3
To store whether to show a message asking the users if they wish to visit one of our other language sites.
Expires after a month
Google Analytics
2
Utilised by Google Analytics to track visitor’s data on the website.
Dev guides - cookie usage
Kentico cookies
See URL
Cookies stored for the proper functioning of our content management system
Cookie-Usage
Remarketing cookies
2
Used to display relevant ads across the Internet to visitors.
Cookies expire after 30 days
You may be able block cookies by activating the setting on your browser that allows you to refuse the setting of all or some cookies. However, if you use your browser settings to block all cookies (including essential cookies) you may not be able to access all or parts of our site. Unless you have adjusted your browser setting so that it will refuse cookies, our system will issue cookies as soon you visit our site.
If you do not consent to cookies being placed, you must notify us of the cookies to which you do not consent.
Except for essential cookies, all cookies will expire after 12 months.
Where we store your personal data
The data that we collect from you may be transferred to, and stored at, a destination outside the European Economic Area ("EEA"). It may also be processed by staff operating outside the EEA who work for us or for one of our suppliers. Such staff maybe engaged in, among other things, the fulfilment of your order, the processing of your payment details and the provision of support services. By submitting your personal data, you agree to this transfer, storing or processing. Megger Limited will take all steps reasonably necessary to ensure that your data is treated securely and in accordance with this privacy policy.
All information you provide to us is stored on our secure servers. Any payment transactions will be encrypted using SSL technology. Where we have given you (or where you have chosen) a password which enables you to access certain parts of our site, you are responsible for keeping this password confidential. We ask you not to share a password with anyone.
Unfortunately, the transmission of information via the internet is not completely secure. Although we will do our best to protect your personal data, we cannot guarantee the security of your data transmitted to our site; any transmission is at your own risk. Once we have received your information, we will use strict procedures and security features to try to prevent unauthorised access.
Uses made of the information
We use information held about you in the following ways:
To ensure that content from our site is presented in the most effective manner for you and for  your computer.
To provide you with information, products or services that you request from us or which we feel  may interest you, where you have consented to be contacted for such purposes.
To carry out our obligations arising from any contracts entered into between you and us.
To allow you to participate in interactive features of our service, when you choose to do so.
To notify you about changes to our service.
We may also use your data to provide you with information about goods and services which may be of interest to you and we or they may contact you about these by post or telephone.
If you are an existing customer, we will only contact you by electronic means (e-mail or SMS) with information about goods and services similar to those which were the subject of a previous sale to you.
If you are a new customer, we will contact you by electronic means only if you have consented to this.
Disclosure of your information
We may disclose your personal information to any member of our group, which means our subsidiaries, our ultimate holding company and its subsidiaries, as defined in section 1159 of the UK Companies Act 2006.
We may disclose your personal information to third parties:
In the event that we sell or buy any business or assets, in which case we may disclose your  personal data to the prospective seller or buyer of such business or assets.
If Megger Limited or substantially all of its assets are acquired by a third party, in which  case personal data held by it about its customers will be one of the transferred assets.
If we are under a duty to disclose or share your personal data in order to comply with any legal obligation; or to protect the rights, property, or safety of Megger Limited, our customers, or others. This includes exchanging information with other companies and organisations for the purposes of fraud protection and credit risk reduction.
Your rights
You have the right to ask us not to process your personal data for marketing purposes. We will usually inform you (before collecting your data) if we intend to use your data for such purposes or if we intend to disclose your information to any third party for such purposes. You can exercise your right to prevent such processing by checking certain boxes on the forms we use to collect your data.  You can also exercise the right at any time by contacting us at Megger Limited, Archcliffe Road, Dover, Kent, CT17 9EN, England or email us at legal@megger.com
Our site may, from time to time, contain links to and from the websites of our partner networks and affiliates. If you follow a link to any of these websites, please note that these websites have their own privacy policies and that we do not accept any responsibility or liability for these policies.  Please check these policies before you submit any personal data to these websites.
Access to information
Under the Data Protection Act 1998, you have the right to request a copy of the personal information We hold about you. We charge £10 for information requests.
Any such requests should be addressed to the Data Controller, Megger Limited, Archcliffe Road, Dover, Kent, CT17 9EN, England (Email: datacontroller@megger.com).
Changes to our privacy policy
Any changes we may make to our privacy policy in the future will be posted on this page and, where appropriate, notified to you by e-mail.
Contact
Any questions or comments regarding this privacy policy are welcomed and should be addressed to the Data controller, Megger Limited, Archcliffe Road, Dover, Kent, CT17 9EN, England or email us at dataprotection@megger.com.
Popular Links
New in the technical library
Upcoming Megger events
Featured product videos
Find a distributor
Discover our product range
Account Links
Login
My account
Service request
Software downloads
Product registration
Site Links
Contact us
Cookie policy
Legal
Modern Slavery Act
Privacy policy
Sitemap
Brand Links
AVO Training Institute
States Terminal Blocks and Test Switches
Social Links
Facebook
Twitter
Youtube
LinkedIn
Instagram
Glassdoor
Copyright © 2023 Megger, all rights reserved.
We use cookies to provide you with a better experience. Read more on our
cookie policy.