Legal notice, disclaimer and terms of user
Log in
Registration
Where to buy
Contact us
International English
Africa
Asia
Australia
Bulgaria
Canada
China
Latin America
Czech Republic
Europe
France
Germany
Hungary
India
Middle East
Poland
Romania
Russia / CIS
Serbia
Slovakia
Spain
Sweden
Turkey
UK
USA
Menu
Search for:
Search
Products
Previous
Cable fault, test and diagnostics
Previous
Cable fault and test system vans
Cable fault locating equipment
Cable testing and diagnostics
Telecom testing
Diagnostic laboratory equipment
Circuit breaker testing
Previous
Circuit breaker analysis systems
Contact resistance test sets
Insulating oil testing
Primary injection test systems
PD testing on bushings, spacer and insulators
PD testing on switchgear (AIS/GIS/GIL)
Electricians' testers
Previous
Battery testing equipment
Earth testing
Electricians' accessories
Insulation resistance testing < 1 kV
Loop and RCD testing
Low resistance ohmmeters
Motor and generator testing
Multifunction installation testers
Multimeters and clampmeters
Portable appliance testing (PATs)
Electrical certification software
Thermal cameras
Time domain reflectometers
Utility service detection
Voltage detectors
Instrument transformer testing
Previous
Current and voltage transformer testing
Insulation testing
Previous
AC insulation testing
DC diagnostic insulation testing
DC Hipot testing
DC overvoltage or withstand testing
Insulation resistance testing < 1 kV
VLF insulation testing
PD test of insulating materials and electronic components
Monitoring
Previous
Motor monitoring
PD in insulation
Powerline monitoring
Motor and generator testing
Previous
Static electric motor analysers
Dynamic electric motor analysers
Electric motor QC systems
PD testing on motors and generators
Relay and protection testing
Previous
IEC 61850 solutions
Multi-phase relay testing
Primary injection test systems
Protection system tools
Relay software
Single phase relay testing
Resistance, battery and power quality
Previous
Battery testing equipment
Earth testing
Leak and corona detectors
Low resistance ohmmeters
Power quality
Software
Utility service and leak detection
Watthour meter testing
Power transformer testing
Previous
Complete transformer test systems
Insulating oil testing
Transformer insulation testing
Transformer resistance testing
Turns ratio testing
PD testing on transformers
PD testing on bushings, spacer and insulators
Partial discharge testing
Previous
PD testing on bushings, spacer and insulators
PD test of insulating materials and electronic components
PD testing on transformers
PD testing on motors and generators
PD testing on switchgear (AIS/GIS/GIL)
Water leak detection and monitoring
close
Applications
Previous
Low Voltage and PAT testing
Battery
Cable test
Previous
Cable diagnostics
Cable fault location
High voltage cable testing
Communications systems
Circuit breakers
Previous
Air/gas circuit breakers
Interrupter
Oil circuit breakers
Operating mechanism
Recommended circuit breaker tests
Vacuum circuit breakers
Instrument transformer
Previous
Bushing CT’s
Current transformer
Voltage transformer
Relay protection
Previous
Smart grid and digital substation
Smart grid and distributed energy resources (DER)
Specific and advanced applications
Power Transformer
Previous
Transformer Life Management Bulletin series
Commissioning / routine / diagnostic
Surge arresters
Tap changers
Transformer bushing CTs
Transformer bushings
Transformer core
Transformer insulation
Transformer windings and leads
Partial discharge
Renewable products
Water leak detection
close
Grid solutions
close
Company
Previous
About Us
Previous
Who we are
What we do
Legal
Blog
Podcast
Careers
Contact us
News
Previous
Videos
Previous
Webinars
close
Support
Previous
Customer support
Previous
Product registration
Returns authorisations
Frequently asked questions
Previous
Battery and product disposal
Battery testing
Current transformer (CT) testing
HV circuit breaker testing
Installation testing
Insulation resistance testing
Loop testing
PAT testing
PowerSuite software
Sweep frequency response analysis
Time Domain Reflectometry
Product notices
Safety notices
Technical library
Previous
Academic papers
Application notes
Brochures and catalogues
Case studies
Electrical Tester online
Electrical Tester magazine
Software and firmware
Technical guides
ET Magazine - November 2022
ET Magazine - March 2020
ET Magazine - July 2021
Where to buy
Previous
Megger contacts
Megger approved distributors
Megger sales territories
Where to Rent
close
Events
Previous
Conferences
Previous
Exhibitions
Previous
Webinars
close
Webinars
close
Legal notice, disclaimer, and terms of use
Access to and use of this World Wide Web site ("The Web Site") is provided subject to these terms and conditions. Please read these terms carefully as use of this site constitutes acceptance of these terms and conditions.
For purposes of this notice, "Megger" shall include Megger Group Limited, and its divisions, subsidiaries, successors, parent companies, and their employees, partners, principals, agents and representatives, and any third-party providers or sources of information or data
Use of material on The Web Site
The information, artwork, text, video, audio, or pictures contained on The Web Site (collectively, "Materials") are protected by International copyright laws. You may only access and use the Materials for purposes connected with specifying, purchasing or using Megger products and services. You may not, under any circumstances, except as provided below, modify, reproduce, record, publish, publicly exhibit, distribute or use the Materials for any other purpose without Megger's express written consent. You should not attempt to "pass-off" any of Megger's content as your own work.
You may print the Materials for purposes connected with specifying, purchasing or using Megger products and services only, and you must include any copyright notice originally included with the Materials in all copies.
Any computer software downloadable or otherwise available from The Web Site is licensed subject to the terms of the applicable license agreement.
The Materials have been compiled by Megger from a variety of sources, and are subject to change without notice.
Sites linked from The Web Site
The sites linked from or to The Megger Web Site are not under Megger's control, and Megger does not assume any responsibility or liability for any communications or materials available at such linked sites. Megger does not intend links on The Web Site to be referrals or endorsements of the linked entities; they are provided for convenience only.
Disclaimer of warranty
The services, information or data made available on The Web Site (collectively, "Information") are provided "AS IS", without warranties of any kind. Megger expressly disclaims any representations and warranties, including without limitation, the implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose. Megger shall have absolutely no liability in connection with the services including without limitation, any liability for damage to your computer hardware, data, information, materials and business resulting from the Information or the lack of Information available on The Web Site. Megger shall have no liability for:
Any loss or injury caused, in whole or in part, by its actions, omissions, or negligence, or for contingencies beyond its control, in procuring, compiling, or delivering the Information;
Any errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in the Information regardless of how caused, or delays or interruptions in delivery of the Information; or
Any decision made or action taken or not taken in reliance upon the Information furnished hereunder.
Megger makes no warranty, representation or guaranty as to the content, sequence, accuracy, timeliness or completeness of the Information or that the Information may be relied upon for any reason. Megger makes no warranty, representation or guarantee that the Information will be uninterrupted or error free or that any defects can be corrected.
Limitation of liability
Under no circumstances shall Megger be liable for any losses or damages whatsoever, whether in contract, tort or otherwise, from the use of, or reliance on, the Information, or from the use of the Internet generally.
General Statements for the Megger UK Website
WEEE
The European Directive 2002/96/EC (as amended) on waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) came into force in February 2003. The purpose of this directive is minimise the environmental impact of WEEE and to encourage its separate collection, subsequent treatment, reuse, recovery, recycling and environmentally sound disposal.
Electrical and electronic equipment should never be disposed with general waste collections but must be separately collected for their proper treatment and recovery. The crossed out wheeled bin placed on Megger products is a reminder to dispose of the product correctly at the end of its life.
Users of Megger products within the UK may dispose of them at the end of their useful life by contacting B2B Compliance at www.b2bcompliance.org.uk or by telephone on 01691 676124.
Megger is registered in the UK as a Producer of Electrical and Electronic Equipment. The Registration No is WEE/HE0146QT
Users of Megger products in other parts of the EU should contact their local distributor.
RoHS
The European Directive 2002/95/EC (as amended) on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment (RoHS) came into force in February 2003. The purpose of this directive is to restrict the use of lead, cadmium, mercury, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenyls and polybrominated diphenyl ethers, thereby contributing to the protection of human health and the environment.
The products produced by Megger are classified as Category 9, Monitoring and Control Products, and as such are not included within the scope of the RoHS Directive. Nevertheless, Megger is continually striving to exclude the restricted substances from its products whilst not compromising safety and reliability.
Batteries
The European Directive 2006/66/EC on batteries and accumulators and waste batteries and accumulators came into force in September 2006. It seeks to improve the environmental performance of batteries and accumulators and of the activities of all economic operators involved in the life cycle of batteries and accumulators, e.g. producers, distributors and end-users and, in particular, those operators directly involved in the treatment and recycling of waste batteries and accumulators.
Megger is registered in the UK as a producer of batteries.
The Registration number is BPRN00142
Specific Statements for the Product User Guide
WEEE
The crossed out wheeled bin placed on Megger products is a reminder not to dispose of the product at the end of its life with general waste.
Megger is registered in the UK as a Producer of Electrical and Electronic Equipment. The Registration No is WEE/HE0146QT
Batteries
The crossed out wheeled bin placed on the batteries is a reminder not to dispose of them with general waste at the end of their life.
This product contains the following batteries...
They are located...
They can be safely removed by...
Spent ??? batteries are classified as Portable Batteries and should be disposed of in the UK in accordance with Local Authority requirements
Spent ??? batteries are classified as Industrial Batteries. For disposal in the UK contact Megger Ltd
For disposal of batteries in other parts of the EU contact your local distributor.
Megger is registered in the UK as a producer of batteries.
The Registration number is BPRN00142
Copyright and trademark notices
Copyright (c) Megger Group Limited. and/or its licensors, 2014, all rights reserved.
AVO, Biddle, BITE, DLRO, Ducter, Evershed and Vignoles, Foster, Megger, Metrosonics, Multi-AMP, States and the Megger logotype are the trademarks or registered trademarks of Megger Group Limited and or its subsidaries. Before using any Megger logotype or trademark, please review Megger's Trademark Usage Policy.
Copyright infringement notification procedure
Refer issues relating to claims for possible copyright infringement to
Megger Group Limited Archcliffe Road Dover Kent CT17 9EN
T +44 (0) 1304 502100
F +44 (0) 1304 502141
E
Legal@megger.com
A notification of claimed infringement related to any of the Megger Properties must be a written communication addressed as set forth above, and must include substantially all of the following:
A physical or electronic signature of the owner (or person authorized to act on behalf of the owner) of an exclusive right that is allegedly infringed;
Specific identification of the copyrighted work claimed to have been infringed, or if multiple copyrighted works are covered by a single notification, a list of each copyrighted work claimed to have been infringed;
Information related to the work(s) reasonably sufficient for Megger to promptly locate the work (e.g. title of work, location within the Megger Properties, etc.);
Information reasonably sufficient to permit Megger to directly contact the complaining party, such as a complete name and address, telephone number, and an email address;
A statement that the complaining party has a good faith belief that use of the work(s) in the manner complained of is not authorized by the copyright owner, its agent, or the law;
A statement requesting that Megger take a specific act with respect to the alleged infringement (e.g., removal, access restricted or disabled); and
A statement that the information in the notification is accurate, and under penalty of perjury, that the complaining party is authorized to act on behalf of the owner of an exclusive right that is allegedly infringed.
If you have any questions or any queries with regard to this legal notice please contact Megger by e-mail at
Legal@megger.com
.
Megger Group Limited, Registered in England and Wales Number 2582519, Registered office Archcliffe Road, Dover, Kent CT17 9EN
Popular Links
New in the technical library
Upcoming Megger events
Featured product videos
Find a distributor
Discover our product range
Account Links
Login
My account
Service request
Software downloads
Product registration
Site Links
Contact us
Cookie policy
Legal
Modern Slavery Act
Privacy policy
Sitemap
Brand Links
AVO Training Institute
States Terminal Blocks and Test Switches
Social Links
Facebook
Twitter
Youtube
LinkedIn
Instagram
Glassdoor
Copyright © 2023 Megger, all rights reserved.
We use cookies to provide you with a better experience. Read more on our
cookie policy.