Calibrators
Home
Company
Portrait
History
News
Events
Event List
Webinars
Jobs
Test and Measurement Service Engineer Lead (m/f/d)
Technical Sales Engineer (m/f/d)
Laboratory Employee (m/f/d)
Experienced Software Developer (m/f/d)
Electronics Technician for Devices and Systems (m/f/d)
Test and Measurement Service Engineer (m/f/d)
Student Workers (m/f/d)
Directions
Products
Product Navigator
Partial Discharge Measurement Devices
ICMsystem
ICMcompact
AIAcompact
ICMflex and ICMflex GRC
Partial Discharge Monitoring Systems
GISmonitor
GISmonitor Portable
ICMmonitor
ICMoutlander
Calibrators
HF (IEC60270)
UHF
RIV
PD Accessories
PD Sensors
Coupling Capacitors
Quadrupoles
Preamplifiers & Preacquisition Units
HF Current Transformers
Bushing Accessories
Disturbance Antennas
Filters
Various Accessories
Tan Delta Measurement
ICMflex
TDAcompact
Fiber Optic Transmission Systems
FOS1
FOS2
FOS3
FOS4
RIV Measurement
RIVmeter
ICMsystem
ICMcompact
Acoustic PD Location
FOS4
ICMsystem
Test & Automation
HVcontrol
HVcompact
STEPcompact
HV Transformers & Regulating Units
AC Test Chambers
Mobile Test System
Special Instruments
ATTanalyzer
MWS
PRPDreplay
Special Software
Services
Testing Laboratory
On-site Measurements
Training  & Seminars
Installation and Commissioning Services
Consulting Activities
Calibration Services (DAkkS)
Applications
Rotating Machines
Testing Laboratory (QA and R&D)
Onsite Measurements
Online Monitoring
Power, Distribution & Instrument Transformers
Testing Laboratory (QA and R&D)
On- and Offline Tests
Online Monitoring
Switchgear Systems (AIS/GIS/GIL)
Shop Floor Testing (QA and R&D)
On- and Offline Tests
Online Monitoring
MV, HV, EHV Cables & Cable Accessories
Shop Floor Testing (QA and R&D)
On- and Offline Tests
Bushings, Spacers, Insulators, etc.
Other Insulation Materials & Electronic Components
Downloads
Brochures and Brochure Pages
Publications
Application Notes
Data Sheets
Manuals
Control Menu Cards
Miscellaneous
My PDIX
My Instruments
Instrument registration
Documents
Software
Upgrades
Calibration
Profile
Contact
EN
DE
FR
NL
PT
ES
IT
My Account
Login +
CAL
Calibrators
Power Diagnostix calibrators enjoy all the advantages of 20 years' experience in calibration services. The broad range of easy-to-use and robust units for many different applications ensures reliable PD measurements compliant to international standards, such as IEC 60270, CISPR 18-2, and NEMA 107-1987.
Power Diagnostix
-
Products
-
Calibrators
ICM series Accessories: Calibrators
Partial discharge measurement is a useful tool to analyze the
insulation
of high voltage components. However, partial discharges can usually not be measured directly, just the apparent charge
of such signals are captured by the measuring instrument. Therefore a calibration of the whole measuring system is required in principle. Hereby short-duration current pulses of known charge magnitude are injected into the system, and by this a scale factor can be calculated for later PD measurements.
Power Diagnostix offers a wide range of calibration charge injectors suitable for use in calibrating partial discharge measurements. The appropriate choice of a calibration instrument depends on the range of typical charge values of the PDs being measured. Calibrators can also be used for time domain reflectometry in
cables
to determine cable length and location of joints.
Simple to Use
The calibrator is switched on with the pushbutton On/Off. Both amplitude (Range) and polarity (Pos/Neg) of the single charge pulse per cycle are displayed and can be adjusted by pressing of the two buttons. Each calibrator is also available supplying two pulses per cycle, as well as with double impulse output with adjustable interval. The instrument automatically synchronizes to line frequency by a photo diode. In case of insufficient pick-up of power frequency light, the calibrator automatically selects the internal quartz oscillator (50Hz and 60Hz versions available).
Unique Concept
The Power Diagnostix line of calibration impulse generators is unique in that the charge pulse is generated by injecting a variable voltagestep (correlated to an internal reference) via a fixed capacitor. This injection capacitor is relatively small, as the step voltage amounts up to 120 V for full range output. Therefore, the Power Diagnostix calibrators offer excellent impulse properties. Further, calculation of the correction factor is usually not necessary (C
I
<<C
S
).
Conformity to International Standards
Power Diagnostix operates a calibration laboratory, which has received the accreditation within the German Calibration Service DKD by 2003. In January 2012, Power Diagnostix passed over to the newly introduced German accreditation authority DAkkS (DAkkS = DeutscheAkkreditierungsstelle). Power Diagnostix’ new accreditation is filed under D-K-15068-01-00. The audit according to ISO 17025:2018 was held by 'Physikalisch Technische Bundesanstalt' PTB, the German authority of standards.
New calibrators are shipped with the calibration certificate to ensure the traceability to international standards.
Download Product Information
Download Accreditation Certificate
Download Calibration Quantities
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Legal
Site Map