Rotating Machines
Home
Company
Portrait
History
News
Events
Event List
Webinars
Jobs
Test and Measurement Service Engineer Lead (m/f/d)
Technical Sales Engineer (m/f/d)
Laboratory Employee (m/f/d)
Experienced Software Developer (m/f/d)
Electronics Technician for Devices and Systems (m/f/d)
Test and Measurement Service Engineer (m/f/d)
Student Workers (m/f/d)
Directions
Products
Product Navigator
Partial Discharge Measurement Devices
ICMsystem
ICMcompact
AIAcompact
ICMflex and ICMflex GRC
Partial Discharge Monitoring Systems
GISmonitor
GISmonitor Portable
ICMmonitor
ICMoutlander
Calibrators
HF (IEC60270)
UHF
RIV
PD Accessories
PD Sensors
Coupling Capacitors
Quadrupoles
Preamplifiers & Preacquisition Units
HF Current Transformers
Bushing Accessories
Disturbance Antennas
Filters
Various Accessories
Tan Delta Measurement
ICMflex
TDAcompact
Fiber Optic Transmission Systems
FOS1
FOS2
FOS3
FOS4
RIV Measurement
RIVmeter
ICMsystem
ICMcompact
Acoustic PD Location
FOS4
ICMsystem
Test & Automation
HVcontrol
HVcompact
STEPcompact
HV Transformers & Regulating Units
AC Test Chambers
Mobile Test System
Special Instruments
ATTanalyzer
MWS
PRPDreplay
Special Software
Services
Testing Laboratory
On-site Measurements
Training  & Seminars
Installation and Commissioning Services
Consulting Activities
Calibration Services (DAkkS)
Applications
Rotating Machines
Testing Laboratory (QA and R&D)
Onsite Measurements
Online Monitoring
Power, Distribution & Instrument Transformers
Testing Laboratory (QA and R&D)
On- and Offline Tests
Online Monitoring
Switchgear Systems (AIS/GIS/GIL)
Shop Floor Testing (QA and R&D)
On- and Offline Tests
Online Monitoring
MV, HV, EHV Cables & Cable Accessories
Shop Floor Testing (QA and R&D)
On- and Offline Tests
Bushings, Spacers, Insulators, etc.
Other Insulation Materials & Electronic Components
Downloads
Brochures and Brochure Pages
Publications
Application Notes
Data Sheets
Manuals
Control Menu Cards
Miscellaneous
My PDIX
My Instruments
Instrument registration
Documents
Software
Upgrades
Calibration
Profile
Contact
EN
DE
FR
NL
PT
ES
IT
My Account
Login +
Rotating Machines
Partial discharge and loss factor measurements and PD monitoring on generators and large motors offers the assessment of the condition of the stator winding. This helps avoiding unplanned outages as well as scheduling efficient maintenance outages.
Power Diagnostix
-
Applications
-
Rotating Machines
Rotating Machines
The typical epoxy-mica insulation system of rotating machines is a 'forgiving' insulation system. Due to this electrical stability, partial discharge activity acts as an indicator for a variety of defect mechanisms. Besides the mere normal thermal aging, further problems, such as end winding contamination, bar or overhang vibrations, deterioration of grading layers, loose wedges, or large internal delamination can be classified by analysis of the properties of phase-resolved partial discharge patterns. PD testing and monitoring on generators and large motors offers a detailed stator winding condition assessment. This helps avoiding unplanned outages as well as scheduling efficient maintenance turn arounds.
PD Measurements
Power Diagnostix offers various instruments for
continuous monitoring
, schedule-based routine testing and in-depth analysis of rotating machinery. The instruments and their control software were continuously improved, based on the feedback and requirements of the end users.
Permanently installed partial discharge
couplers
greatly simplify periodical on-line testing using the
ICMsystem
without any interruption or downtime.
Continuous online PD monitoring
with a permanently installed
ICMmonitor
helps optimizing maintenance intervals and reducing costs, while improving the level of equipment dependability.
Tan Delta Measurements
The loss factor or tan delta measurement allows an evaluation of the condition of the complete insulation of a stator winding. All resistive losses between HV potential and ground are measured. Typical values are in a range of 10
-3
to 10
-2
.
The
TDAcompact
is a digital tanδ and power factor analyzer for off-line dielectric testing to assess the overall healthof the insulation system. Its fiber optic signal transmission simplifies connection even on grounded equipment. The unit comes with reference capacitor and can be combined with any external high voltage source.
Partial Discharge Monitoring
Based on the stand-alone
ICMmonitor
unit connected to an individual machine, larger networks supervising a multitude of generators in combined-cycle thermal power plants or pump storage hydro power plants have been realized. Such networks include full control of the local instrument via global Intranet access as well as visualization of the monitoring data in monitoring centers. The
ICMmonitor
software offers automated scanning, pattern acquisition, and analysis of the trending data, while the ICMserver software operates in the background to supervise the communication between the individual instruments and data servers.
Large Motors
High voltage motors are the main assets to keep compressors, cooling pumps, extruders and or large fans running in refineries, oil and gas plants, chemical and petrochemical industry. Here, unplanned outages can cause immense losses. Not only for the HV motor in particular, but, to clean pipelines with remaining product or compressor and extruders that have stalled by motor failure. Further, such motors act as auxiliary drives in thermal and nuclear power plants to run the (emergency) cooling system, for example. Here, failure of a motor stator winding can cause critical subsequent damage. Given the typical 5-yearly outages for such setups, permanent installation of
capacitive couplers
offers periodical online PD measurements, and, hence, the possibility for an accurate and short follow-up. For the most critical trains
continuous monitoring
can be installed from the early beginning.
Instruments
PD activity acquired with the ICMsystem showing the non-symmetrical discharge pattern of a heavily deteriorated slot-exit field grading.
TDAcompact
ICMmonitor trending display
Couplers CC14B installed on a motor terminal box
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Legal
Site Map